# Links to third party applications of interest for Crunchy

= Introduction =

Crunchy makes use of some third party applications and could possibly use others.  In addition, other applications can be complementary to Crunchy.  This page is intended to keep a record of such applications.


= Potentially useful links =

  * Crunchy uses [http://www.cdolivet.net/editarea/ EditArea] as its embedded editor.  Christophe Dolivet, the creator of EditArea, has been kind enough to make changes to its editor, adding Python as a supported language, both in terms of syntax highlighting as well as adapting tabs so that they are translated into 4 spaces.

  * Crunchy uses some modules from [http://effbot.org/zone/element-index.htm ElementTree] for internal processing of html pages.

  * A project that could be useful in Crunchy's development is [http://www.openqa.org/selenium-ide/ Selenium IDE]; it allows one to record every click and text entered in a web session.  This could be useful to develop automated tests for Crunchy.

  * A new (as of April 11, 2007) project of potential interest is [http://www.physics.ox.ac.uk/users/santoso/Software.WebLab.html WebLab].  WebLab embeds a [http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/ matplotlib] session inside Firefox - which is something we have been considering to do for Crunchy itself.

  * It has been a long-time goal of the original creator of Crunchy to use Firefox instead of wxPython as a GUI for [http://rur-ple.sourceforge.net/ rur-ple], the child-friendly environment to learn programming using Python.


Feel free to suggest more links that should be added on this page.




